"oubliette"

"within the fragrant citadel"
"ardens of the magnolia citadel"

magnolias have beautful scented flowers that contain high myristicin cntent that i imagine could be used to help synth a novel aryylcyclohexamine disso that when infected by a fungi altered by a phage and tainted by a chemical fungicide results in drug experiences that cause trouble...
eventually not only changing a religion, a socity and a world, but eventually a universe - and even a multivers.

>>>note:
if 3 billion survive a comet fragment strike and 10mil survive the aftermath of nuclear bombs, etc. sendin planet into both ice age and tech collapse, why am i setting it in derinyuku turkey caves not a rats nest under bejing or in a advanced military fallout shelter in us or whatever?
after thousands of yrs, people have forgotten a bunch of rural turks hiding in caves growing seeds donated by the big pharma/chemical/agri industries, with tech from bits of scrobbled here n there stuff etc. - so they have remained isolated longer, exposed to mutations n gen eng n weird drugs n everything etc longer and here is the special place where the drug was made and the dark drug gave access.
the dark drug access is what led the surface gods to the escape to other worlds the off earth escape from the cycle.
this leads on to the book that 'in the dark we live' short story will develop into.
somewhere inbetween lies something akin to event horizon scaery story.
>>>

***why? reasons reasons reasons. if it doesnt make sense then people dont buy it - no suspension of disbelief. if its logical or emotion driven, or sciency or reasoned out according to what has been claimed then as long theres consistency itll follow and make sense -the rest writes itself as far as dialogue, motivations, actions, decisions, rsulting wins/losses/survivals/consequnces etc.

except where you choose to throw in a curve ball by using an as yet unmentioned tiny little feak luck - but DONT push it - repeated miraculous escapes/survivals, last minute reprieves, nick of time wins, etc. arent realistic.

sometimes epople fail, soemtimes they do stuff with relative eae or things arent the most exciting.

theres gotta be a balance.

>>>

...
mankind by nature is old, very self centred. and forgetful. but we survive.

but maybe theres a new threat, darker threat...

when something bad happens and it wipes out everything little survives - no paper, no wood, nothing under the sea, nothing except that carved deep into solid rock.

and when that doesnt survive only humans survive, all that remains is folk lore, storytelling and myth

according to ancient Iroquois legend:



_Long ago, a village was plagued by a great serpent who dwelt in a nearby lake. So the great spirit in the sky sent down a hero to defeat him. In a vicious battle, bolts of lightning struck the serpent, the sound shook the Earth, and the flashes were so bright that the people shielded their eyes, covered their ears, and hid in fear. The very constellations were dislodged from the night sky and came crashing to Earth with a ferocious blast and scorching heat. One star fell into the lake, wounding the horned serpent. As the great serpent thrashed its tail in pain, it sent 100-foot waves crashing through the valleys in a series of colossal floods. Most of the tribe didn't survive, but the serpent was driven away._

see origin myths of ancient cultures, According to these legends, humanity shared the Earth with a more advanced society, whether Atlanteans, or giants, or gods on Earth. Until a horrific global cataclysm occurred, a great flood, only a chosen few were spared to repopulate the Earth. Who were later visited by other survivors, mysterious great teachers, usually arriving by sea, to help them lay the foundations for the rebirth of humanity and civilization


also other repeat worldwide legends:
Quetzalcoatl, the feathered serpent, Coyolshaqui the moon goddess who fought a serpent and defeated it slicing it into pieces, snakes raining down from the skies on the pillars of Göbekli Tepe, Serpent Mound in North America.

myths of atlantis etc. - flood cities, kindoms and sunken lands.

zoroastrianism was proclaimed to be the oldest practiced religion. 
Zoroaster spoke of the first king and founder of civilization, a man named Yima. One day, as Yima was beside a river, the great god Ahura Mazda appeared to him with an ominous warning. Not of a flood, but of a fatal winter. And he told Yima to build a vara, an immense underground shelter. Into it, he must bring the best of men and women, and animals, two of every kind. Yima must store seeds of every tree and fruit, creating an inexhaustible supply until the fatal winter had passed

Göbekli Tepe carvings: nakes kind of emanating from these birds.
nakes kind of emanating from these birds.

...tall bending birds probably representing Pisces. Graham: Right. Dr. Martin: And here we have the constellation Aquarius, we think that's what the fox represents. At the time Göbekli Tepe was built, these were the constellations from which the Taurid meteor stream radiated.

A record of a storm of comet fragments that lasted weeks.

earlier advanced civilization might have been wiped out, erased from memory during this ancient apocalypse 12,800 years ago. After those cosmic impacts on the ice caps, sea levels rose, swallowing up all the low-lying coastal lands that would have likely been settled by an advanced culture. Places like Sundaland... the Maltese peninsula, or the Grand Bahama Banks. Perhaps in Indonesia the survivors retreated to the hills, leaving behind tantalizing clues to their sophisticated architecture. Some survivors in Turkey may have decided to carve out refuges underground in case more meteors struck. In the Mediterranean, on Malta, the survivors might have built temples aligned to the brightest new star in their night sky, perhaps fearing that it might herald the next comet to strike. They traversed the seas, passing down their geographic knowledge to others. Their appearances recorded in ancient traditions, even etched in stone. They directed less advanced cultures to memorialize what happened with huge monuments incorporating specific, dateable alignments, and megalithic memorials recording those dates, buried as time capsules. And these ancients helped reboot humanity in a scarred and devastated landscape.


gobekli tepe, aztec pyramids, stonehenge, other pyramids, stone crcles, all pointing to a date - 12,800 yrs ago.
myths and their monumental structures, so carefully aligned to the stars and to the Sun, bear witness to this obsession, and memorialize the terrible events at the end of the Ice Age that changed the human story forever, and gave birth to the modern world.

were these monuments? or... w a r n i n g s?



according to the archives humans have been around as homo sapiens for 300,000yrs. but those who read the data better guess at as long as 3mil yrs. unfortunately definitive proof relied on fossil records. a further problem is humans are a forgtful species.

and we forget very important things.

how many times have we risen to create civilisations, technologies and mor but had them buried by mud, rock, water, ground to dust and swept away by the wind?

does it go back further than 3mil yrs?

in theory no-one knows.

but sometimes we do try to leave ourselves reminders of what we have forgotten. the ever so important things we have forgotten.

why did we bury gobekli tepe and the other tepes and make the pyramids and the aztec pyramids so bg and all these monolithic stone structures to last so long? was it because our only tech was stone tools? then why not make them manageble, smaller? were there wood ones that rotted? yes. what was this desperation for permanence, lasting, solidity, ?

when someone leaves a warnign that severe, that fearful they live undrground for o long - what are they saying?

we found out.

2196 taurid meteor shower time, 12173 yrs after las time warned by the monuments the comet returned and the fragments struck again.

of 8 something billion odd people on the planet a good 3 billions survived the initial strike and the global winter that followed - famine and the struggles - but they managed to fight and loot and descend into chaos ond bombs went off, diseases 'escaped' - bad diseases, weird diseases. technologies that never should have been made wer used - autonomous robot drone sthat killed according to their own computer driven brains. an already changing post ice age climate upset and exacerbated by pollution and civilisation drove things over the brink - a thousands of years long ice age, snowball earth resulted
maybe 10 million were hunkered down in underground cities - USA, china, russia, uk, europe, canada, brazil, japan, australia - there werre catacombs, subway systems, military bases, civilian nuclear fallout shelters, data centers, mines and anything that was a significant space deep enough underground.

but were interested in an insignificant little group of less than special people. in turkey. a holiday destination, a curiosity - visited as a little morning or day trip whilst seeing scenery in cappadocia, anatolia.

by 2196 the area was just farmers with some gen enged crops/fungi/microorgs, avoiding the terrorists and using some baic web connect tech/computers/comms equip, cobbled together electronics/technology/engineering and prety backward.

after thousands of years, forgotten by the world. forgotten by their government even. forgotten by pretty much everyone. and after thousands of years forgotten by themselves. but they survived. and they developed things - advanced their knowledge by experiment and accident and myth and lore. things were bred and inbred and mutated. toxins were in the water supply, there was radiation, there was evolution, there was exposeure to time.

on the surface the owrld began to warm, civilisation restarted, things grew people recovered. but not everyone emerged and advanced at the same time.

and not everyone wanted to.

unfortunately those who didnt emerge developed something new. something dark. and they opened a dor...

>>>

small weaknesses are peoples downfall - even empires downfall. and not necessarily due to concience.

ive thought all night and i identified a few key points:
the all time best stories exst in a relatively small self contaained world - gormenghast in a city-castle, harry potterin a school, many of myfave scifis in a spceship, snowpiercer in a train, the bridge novels in a cyerpunk fortified ruined suspension bridge, anathem is mostly one monastery, anne mcafferys dragon rider books in a mountain dragon lair, dune, ian rankins rebus detective novels in a smal bit of wet gloomy edunburgh, that woman i forgets detective novels in ancient rome.
then theres a number of classic plot bases:
detective story - mostly murder mystery;
love story;
rise to power;
spy thriller;
new world discover;
etc.

with any good creative endeavour you need limitations to induce circumstance:
trap your cast in a smol world;
make it postapocalyptic with limited tech or resource;
make it historical with limited tech or resource;
make it scifi or fantasy with any limits you choose;
force a reason for who the cast are kike war/trapped/whatever so limiting skill/knowledge/etc.;
same things also add interest - its more interesting to read about future/past/fatasy/scifi/something fictin in someway
also make it mostly very very plausible
fundamentally tho, they say:
write what you know;
stories are about people
i dont know detectives/homicide
but
i do know love
i do know people

i'm very good at obdserving motivations and power shifts, ebbes and flows, balances, drives, differences of opinion, consequences, base urtges, needs, wants, pettiness, emotions, ager, jealousy, revenge, love, lust, greed, desire for peace, lust for power etc.
and i know love
not just boringmeet cute happy ever after loe, but real love - loss unrequited, triangles, prohibited, hidden, fake, gradual, on first sight, coming, going, etc.
i wanna write all of the right bits of that into a love story set across a rise to power set in what is not obvious at first as scifi butis revealed to be post apocalyptic place set in a very fascinating and totally unused fantastic set
it leaves room or a totally novel world, a microcosm of humanity/look at people being people, a setof different factions/classes/clans/whatever, each with powers and skills and uniquenesses, each necessary but resenting eachother, always ighting for power - aspiring to rise or stay ontop, never all seeing they all have equal combination of good and bad, each has chances, and at the top thereis the tiny few elites who struggle in their own way to keep it balanced and ticking over
theres room to send a message about humanitys errors and stuff that need changing, about whats good in life, about what we should appreciate and what we can change
theres room not only for main big love story and lo9ng arc rise to power but many smoller people stories
wofl — Today at 09:51

the rise to power protagonist needs to come from the bottom hating the elite to eventually become one and save the whole thingwhilst changing things to more equality due to their low beginnings whilst learning why the status quo is necessary and not making too much change even tho they are accused of forgetting their roots
wofl — Today at 10:01
i guess fundamentally a modern or postmodern society needs a number of things:
energy
water
food/nutrients
increasing space
some mental/morale based drive

i think i can work out everyone of those things except energy source
limitations are easy

what i dont have that i think it needs is an emerging big threat to the whole kit n kaboodle that the rise to poer protagonist saves and is destined and identified and groomed to save all along but no-one other than the hated by the lowest, and not loved by te many, evied even by the highest, elite sees.

but threat to things on grand scale i struggle with

the whole world is undergrund so biggest threat is flooding but only excuse i can think for flooding likely to this place is melt of the post-apocalyptic freeze - and that tks approx thousands of yrs

i'm not sure i want to set it thousands of yrs into future

advantage of thousands of yrs into futeure - tech breaks down, how it works becomes misunderstood, forgotten, controlled, guarded by few over many or one clan or by the elite
disadv.- its much harder to imagine realistically
i hate inventing stupid 'what arefashions like thousands of years on' or 'how do people talk thpusands of years on' etc.

>>>refletive note: thousands of years into future plays into all the following thoughts as far as stuff toward granders scheme

theres ways round - keep clothing basic and simple for those with little - they descend to tunics or stuff from history due to limited skills, resouces and tools etc.
but elites etc. might cling to what they know or what was top of line so we see as modern day

language can be just brushed over - we assume people are talking di but write normal and let people take for granted its translated in our heads
but

i love things like when you explained how writted korean works - plying with evolution of new language, better language
i'd love to base a world where language has eveloved using something more optimal but derived from whatever is likely - maybe turkish cos the locality is turey
or a mix of english, spanish and mandarin cos thats worlds three largets languages
nevertheless, i'm not sure i love potential floding of underground city as big threat to status quo
it doesnt sit right - if that was ultimate threat it wouldnt be where it is and place would be flooded current day

what else is deep terrifying threat to underground city with unlimited fresh air, water, and food

i studied latin, i know english i'm ok at french - i can derive spanis/italian therefore

i not great at germanics
ok

radiation, toxins in water or air
ummm]
outsife interference
oooh
outside interference
people in power sometoimes dont want to re-emerge and achieve the ultimate goal of returning to earth as they knew

if word comes in things are viable, if an outsider appears...
its a place very safe from radiation
its very safe from toxins really

but outsider upsetting the political control ver a population in stasis is much more subtle and interesting

i dint use apps for navigate - no cue
i guess google maps?
all the people inside dream of returning to the now not seen for thousands of years mythical surface - forbidden, excite, legendary, taboo, scary, beautiful, religios, but only the elite know the trth and the potential for loss to them...
why would they want to return to the surface, for tings to change
but eventually someones gonna come knockin or evidence of life above mighyt filter down

those at the very bottom just think they want up, those in mid generally like life but aspire up - dream of before, but are sml view - idealised, those at top cling to power, dont want return to before or to lose what they have
and politics of that is best story ever cos politics is people

theres  always spies, informants etc. in politics - and slumming it - eople from above going below
everyone knows more than they admit to the masses but uses it for pwer
ontop of this i got the fun theres other knpown linked underground cities - as many as 200 or more, sme suspected even bigger

whether thats room for future writings otr source of potential threat/extra politics...

its potential source of outside trouble
hmmmm side thought - biggest fear everday when undrground is everpresent risk of rock fall/tunnel collapse - especially as knowledge is lost and people combat through 'tradition' not science - ho theres procedures, once new things are carved out an stuff errors are made, and in turkey - earthquakes happen
an increase in seismic activity is a;lso a good backdrop stressor
and everyday stressors ever present, more dangerous to certaoin classes and hence source of unrest but beginning to increase is a fantastic story arcits potential source of outside trouble
hmmmm side thought - biggest fear everday when undrground is everpresent risk of rock fall/tunnel collapse - especially as knowledge is lost and people combat through 'tradition' not science - ho theres procedures, once new things are carved out an stuff errors are made, and in turkey - earthquakes happen
an increase in seismic activity is a;lso a good backdrop stressor
and everyday stressors ever present, more dangerous to certaoin classes and hence source of unrest but beginning to increase is a fantastic story arc

theres always some kinda police force - only piurpose to keep order, access to all, potential for corruption but have to be divorced from any clan or technically to a degree the elite - they will be resented due o not obvious necessesity for everyday survival - they dont make energy/water/food/entertainment/etc. yet they seeminly make some lives worse - but without them things would collapse to war

but its fun to give the police a slightly clannish feel - control over something

the underground is crucially controlled by big round stone 'doors' - olled into place by a rod through a hole indentation in centre and locked by pegs inserted into the indentations round edge to stop it being moved from one side
control over doors is a good way to frame a police clan
every where, but independent

always at risk of someone tunneling round, mking new routes, but controling everything to a degree, needed by all, vulnerable to isolation by any
not gonna use word clan likel
just shorthand

police will always have higher ups who communicate with elite - the power is benign in a way cos grand overview but theres closeness to high plitics, theres low level corruption and interaction with real people and mid level inbetweens

microcosm of whole

i spose theres reason to have multiple potentiaunseen large threat - not only intrusion from outside above, but flood from below, entry f toxins and  radiation to air and water , seismic increase...
and of course, energy is the one thing we have no external source of since no sunlight so is ever constrained
as pop. grws and demand for increasing tech grows so demand for energy grows
its the only non-sustainable/renewable
you cant create energy, oly convert so eventually it is expended
without nuclear source across thousands of years, no sun means very controlled limited total energy capacity
pressures, limitations, motivations, politics
interestigly all the connections to the other hundreds of smoller cities and even larger cities are on the absolute lowest levels - intersting power dynamic, those with least actually have access to the biggest source of new info, poeople, and possible threat
great dynamicc
balance
everyone has something of massive power and threat
everyone thinks they want something tho and everyone lacks the full picture
wofl — Today at 10:45
i have two final winners
one - a mcguffin
the outsider arrival toward end - i think via the underground connection from another underground city, the arriving from the surface, its returned to liveable idyll, theres technology and superior godlike technology and such unimaginable future its revolutionary shock
but some had known it was comign, there were legends it ws fortold
and also, a weird, dread, over arching fear, a secret - the snake pit, why the fear of snakes, what are really the snakes, wh is everyone underground, what caused the postapocalyptic nuclaer winter, why is there a dread of the above and the surface and the skies eve tho people dream of before times
what happened and why do legends prdict it happened before, will happen again, and even worse has happened many times - and can the cycle be stopped
...
hehehehe
i get to base the god from the surface on me!
😄
picture me, survived the apocalypse, roaming the earthwith futuristic technology, restarting civilisation, spreading education, sharing knowledge, restarting the internet and medicine and near unlimited power and fast tavel and power over unimaginable things like gravity defying buildings/huge monuments/speeding trains, flying machines, etc. etc.
wofl — Today at 10:53
a being with a skin of metal, stronger, older, faster, wiser and able t see in the dark, breath toxins, walk throughradiation, travel underwater, etc.
covered in weird skinsymbols about snakes being fought by gods, stars crashing down, protection glyphs, domesticated quadrupeds, remembrance of loved dead
and this god teaches the return to the surface and the ways of before but warns of the snakes, the threat from above
but wants to teach a new generations the ultimate in knowledge in hope someone can solve the cycle because tis dying and it may be too late
on a grander scale, for future stories theres other god beings - from south america with snake gods/temples aligned to the stars, from the uk with temples aligned to the stars, from turkey surface with tempels aligned to the stars, snake pits, carvings of snakes, from around europe with temples aligned to the stars, from south east asia with temples aligned to the stars
and they all know of the fear, the what happened, the deep sad at the lost love and want to stop the cycle
they travel across water, come by air, travel unimaginable distances and know so much but are so deeply traumatised and so desperate to prevent repeat
a scar upon a world that isnt yet preventable from repeat
a scar upon a psyche at gentic level to a whole specis
what lurks out there
every 24,000yrs somthing comes from the stars
wofl — Today at 11:00
and theres only 21,000? til it comes again - an a solution be found this time before the cycle repeats
oooh - gets to choose where to wipe out - western hemisphere gets it worse? northern? southern? eastern? strike across europe to north eastern america?
fun to take out mostly asia and europe but also a bit america
take out the big powers in one blow, chona, russia, us and europe
rest is too smol to make significant survive and the survivors will mostly be thigns like our little micro world, cheyenne mountain/us things, china equive, russia equive, dunno where else
big military powers i guess
anywhere with nuclar protection bunkers and underground suvive, somestuff like swiss mountain deep vaulst for banking and crypto and computing, some datacenters and maybe a bit o space if creative
wofl — Today at 11:07
maybe somethig like some offshoree pilrig conversion type places would be funs too


i like certain themes to run commentary on:
drugs;
trust;
'karma'
drugs: people have always and will always alter their minds for recreation, escape, and function - pleasure, knowledge, life sucks, be faster, stonger, think better etc.
but at what cost? the rich get nootropics, avoid degenerative brain issues think better, improve problem solving, stay awake longer, are stronger, quicker, etc.
he poor have similar things but they caus neurotixicity, cardiotoxicity, physical damage, addiction, terrfiying dreams or mental illness
something the elite use that is corrupted by theose lacking knowledge to similar effect but at what cost?
and the elite allow the bad drugs or control purposes, the poor desire the better drugs
in an underground world of limited resource and forgotten tech, such drugs even if novel are likely fungusbase or grownfrom microorgansims
>>>dont forget microbiotech/gen eng organisms as cruical presence
...
wofl — Today at 11:29
trust is great theme - people will trust way too far when greed is involved - see madeoff ponzi scheme or wirecard or sort of nick leeson or robert maxwell etc.
...
karma - everything has consequence:
every single fucking time throughout history, bad things happen to evil people - people eventually get caught and when the tuth comes out, people who were victims or uffered loss or humiliation or harm will be angry and exact revenge
whether its simple crime and punishment or fall from grace or they personally escape direct consequence but they family, loved ones or legacy sffrs, theres always consequence
...
and finally i like the weird - beyond science, the true fear.
not the sciency human fear of the dark primal lizardbrain 'evolved fight or flight there might be a tiger in the dark, what ou cant see can hurt you'
but the true scary
the uncomprehendable
the unreaonable with undefendable against creepsy and non-science
i like the chaos, the voodoo, the magik, the cthulu, the void, the weird
wofl — Today at 11:37
so including into a drug, including into a religion or cult, including into the cycling threat, including into the grand why, including into and pervading everything i lije a hint of something from another univers/plane/inbetween - its not good or evil or science or lgic, its just different
it can be exploited by some, it is feared by some, it excites/taboo/fascintes/thrills some
it offers pleasure/pain/satisfies greed, desie, all of the seven deadly sins - but at a cost
is it worth it and is that the true secret to this life and perhaps meaning behind the universe/multiverse/greater panoply of everything?

>>>

so including into a drug, including into a religion or cult, including into the cycling threat, including into the grand why, including into and pervading everything i lije a hint of something from another univers/plane/inbetween - its not good or evil or science or lgic, its just different
it can be exploited by some, it is feared by some, it excites/taboo/fascintes/thrills some
it offers pleasure/pain/satisfies greed, desie, all of the seven deadly sins - but at a cost
is it worth it and is that the true secret to this life and perhaps meaning behind the universe/multiverse/greater panoply of everything? 
wofl — Today at 11:51
as far as drug goes, one single main drug i would like to focus on - something that in its various forms can offer euphoric blissful escape, access to knowledge, great healing, dark screts, other worlds, and aslo a source of fear/voodoo/scaer
this points to a euphoric dissociative
something witzh properties like ketamine as far as heling traumas and providing escape, something with the dysphoric possibilities of stff like mxp and its weird geigeresque alien landscapes/plots/stories/visions/horrors, something morephoric and awakeful and designed like mxe, something with purported risk of rage/inhuman strength/crazyness like pcp, something that when cheap/improper/poorly synthed/bad copy results in someform of degernerate brain fail like pcp or bladder etc. fail lik ket yet designer version is fine like mxe.
i like smonkable/vapable druqs - weird glass paraphenalia for those lucky, kludged foil or whatever tube for the desperate and other roas besides
like an arcane paraphenalia - not just the classic meth pookie but necessity for a weird shape or something exotic
the flavour of 3-meo-pcp being spot on black liquorice is fascinate - but something more opium den type feel - a spice. cinnamon is a clssic chemical taste for example but bleugh
wofl — Today at 12:00
maybe myrcene - from cannabis plants made using forgotten art of gen eng to produce an arylcyclohexamine that when vaped tastes like sorta croaass  between myrcene musk smell/ripe fruity sweet maango taste and cardomom, produces euhoric blissful disso hole, escape to a beautiful above the clouds sky world of sun and flying moths 
wofl — Today at 12:11
but also a twisted dark version that cos the genes have mutated and corrupted grow in dark ness that produce an analogue arylecyclohexamine that due to fungal infection of the crops grown in damp insufficient light taste of/smel like?
wofl — Today at 12:20
dark drug seemingly gives psychic powers. but at cost.

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

http://www.phi-base.org/searchFacet.htm?queryTerm=Botrytis

phi-base pathogen host interactions database

Pathogen Gene  mutant Phenotype Pathogen Species Disease Host Species 


PMT2	reduced virulence	Botrytis cinerea	grey mold	Nicotiana tabacum (related: common tobacco)


Gene:PMT2
PHI-base entry:PHI:3002
Gene ID:XM_001558267
Sequence strain:B05.10
Gene function:O-mannosyltransferases
Essential gene:no
Pathogen species:Botrytis cinerea
Pathogen ID: 40559
Pathogen strain:B05.10
Pathogen strain ID: 332648
Host species:Nicotiana tabacum (related: common tobacco)
Host classification:Eudicots
Host ID: 4097
Tissue:leaf

reference
Pmid:23762450
Ref source:Pubmed
Year:2013
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065924
Author reference:M Gonzalez 2013

Comments:Growth rates wereimpapired for the mutants in the presence of cell wall perturbants

phi phenotype
Phenotype:reduced virulence
Disease name:grey mold
Tissue:leaf
Experimental technique:Gene deletion: full

pathogen phenotype
Penetration defect:yes
Vegetative spores:reduced

chebi/cas
Inducer:calcofluor white (CW); Congo red (CR); sodium dodecyl sulphate
Chemical accession:calcofluor white (CW): CHEBI:50011 ; Congo red (CR): CHEBI:34653 ; sodium dodecyl sulphate: CHEBI:8984

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

no
not due to fungal infection
due to chemical fungicides used to treat Botrytis infungus infectons
the people think they want this chemical they desperately battle for but it is the fucked up thing
something like ziram but instead of zincs its a weirder rae=re earth maybe?
also ned to throw in some badic sustainable plant erived drugs - cannabinoid/amp or cath stims/opis/stuff that ha medical se but also diverted

also a mycovirus has infected the fungus messing with its dna/rna and so who knows wtf is going on

side note>>> dbcp and similar chems in water tapped into as wells are dug deeper causing decrease in birthrates although this is not publicly admitted at first so theres infighting in the elites
as to whether  to try to reach other ity states publicly and whether to open up to surface - ofc its also noticd amongst other smarter people in the city

remember tho:
fantasy isnt real, escape isnt permanent solution, everything has downsides. is it worth selling your soul?

...

...
for a trust based scam, an economy is need and investment - and greed so some way fo growth and possibility of profits too good to be true that people will invest in anyways even tho returns are just unrealistic
repeatedly happens over n over through history, each time bigger and each time near collapses a govt or economy

or better - the biggest sham of all - the whole thing is a sham. the world above is fine is cheese, but what if something is a sham bigger than money#?

see the ong good friday

...
karma proving itself via consequences for bad actiosn is an easy theme to work into stories in general repeatedly


...

nice to weave in a thing like nivens mote in gods eye onehand/other hand/gripping hand, but levels vertical. strata. layes. planes.
above, mid , below. airrfow in the underground goes along then up. stratifies. linear flow. 

...

some powerful people are seemingly cold and ruthless, and those in mid or own down can truly be so.

but the very most powerful tend not to just kill for example or use brute force - they are clever - they use apparent betrayal of one to make another think they have lost all, or pressures beyoned resist like defending [unborn]child, ones they love - true human dries not just power/greed/hunger/pain etc. you can drive a mass with causes like space or hunger or energy or knowledge tec. but a single sole aiming to protect a lover or a child or whatever can sink it either way. top, down, bottom up.

when theres a love triangle, multiple pregnant or children and multiple lovers and multiple ties n drws its cuper compelx.
when two women prg, one gets killed cos other and then angered fatehr kills the othe rin wrath so killing his only remaining child...


fear is as powerful or more so than reality. possibility - belief that somethings happened.

but

cold characters have to be cold. they cant care and be sickly cruel. its not real.
if someone is so cold blooded as to crush smol people then they gotta be near sociopathic.

if they care enough not to torture or hurt indiduals as a society for the greater then they wont hurt a starvig mother on a lower level just because they stole food.

either make it appear they are punished or they do puncish - smol scale, big scale.

therefore the top elite who care punish those might steal food or whatever via vanishing people in terrifying manner but they are actually somethingelsed. harmless. maybe sent to the now safe surface? or allowed to join a high class without people knowing? but terrifying the lowers as theyre dragged away to be something fucked up.
otoh the evils will brutally beat and crush insurrection and likewise torture or whatever single individuals from highe rup equally for real.

but people will act on concience - people will turn eventually when things get abhorrent.
likewise given opportunity some will be tempted to reveal a sick self.

those under appreciated and passed over will get sick and rise up.
those in power who arent strong enough get weak and everntually crumble - things shift to fidn the balance but nothing lasts - rises and falls, aging, new blood.

elites aware fo this have to offer not only chances of promotions between different clans, but also some kind of limited intake to elit to keep things goign - inbreedin otherwise. 
maybe a litle inbreeding amongst clans would create fascinating specialties?

but for elite they need the best of best, alround, nonspecialist - kidnapping inducing terror of lost kids or promoting with hope for all? either way kids can neevr be in contact again so there will be rumours and mistrust.

people like a dupe, a idiot, someone falling for stuff cos they want desperately for them to realise - the higher up they are the better [or more powerful anyways]

people like a traitor


assassination by poisoning is cool - especially if secret survival but with new knowloedge

martial arts is cool - is there relevant martial art to turk?
bibble quotes is cool wen its a fucked druq cult - but need to be twisted

game theory

...

need more than the veerpresent danger of rock fall.

need a weapon/danger/risk/something all fear and all can use, somehow.

in space theres vacuum, in paost apocalyptic nuclear winter theres cold, in desert plant theres strand no water, sometimes is poison or radiation or ?

what are people most afraid of? after skyfall, bing on surface. and when its cold post apocalyptic nuclear winter theres double danger. 
it'll be so cold the air shafts immediate are bad, but being hoist is lethal - done right, wind up rope to top and release, wind will whip away for ever...
elite and police force can use capital punishment of hoist ot syrface, and lesser/roture  of exposure to airshafts. others might carry out adhoc justice of airshaft stuff.

very hard otherwise to haide a body even in 20,000 peple - every single nook and cranny is known and found explored eventually.

... 

Violent gusts whipped loose soil into the air as I hiked through  Nevşehir Province, Turkey, Cappadocia's Love Valley. Pink- and yellow-hued hillsides coloured the rolling landscape scarred with deep red canyons, and chimneystack rock formations loomed in the distance. It was arid, hot, windy and devastatingly beautiful. Millennia ago, this volatile, volcanic environment naturally sculpted the spires surrounding me into their conical, mushroom-capped shapes, which now draw millions of visitors to hike or hot-air balloon in the central Turkish region.

Several million years ago, volcanic eruptions spewed layer after layer of ash, called tuff or tufa. Over time the tuff cemented into a soft, easily carvable, yet relatively stable rock. Inhabitants of ancient Anatolia realized that they could carve out their homes right into the hillsides and underground. Derinkuyu is one of the many rock-cut dwellings in the region
Cappadocia is uniquely suited to this kind of underground construction due to the lack of water in the soil and its malleable, easily mouldable rock. "The geomorphology of the region is conducive to the digging of underground spaces," he said, explaining that the local tuff rock would have been fairly easy to carve with simple tools like shovels and pickaxes. This same pyroclastic material was naturally forged into the fairy-tale chimneys and phallic spires jutting from the earth above ground.
serpentine tunnels meander below. Most of those tunnels are natural — however, some are man-made.


Derinkuyu was only "rediscovered" in 1963 by an anonymous local who kept losing his chickens. While he was renovating his home, the poultry would disappear into a small crevasse created during the remodel, never to be seen again. Upon closer investigation and some digging, the Turk unearthed a dark passageway

it's thought the more than 200 small, separate underground cities that have also been discovered in the region may be connected to these tunnels, creating a massive subterranean network.

- While only 2,000 square feet of Derinkuyu has been discovered so far, the Cappadocia tourism website says that it might extend to as much as 7,000 square feet. '445 sq km'? eh?
- 100s of miles of tunnels -  narrow passages forced people to go through in single file.
- 18 stories deep - upto 280ft
- 600 entrances in 2023, inc escape hatches
- 2foot thick 1/2ton circular stone doors, hole in center allowed a strong beam through the hole for users to open and shut the door. doors only opened and closed from the inside, the inhabitants within the complex had complete control- Each level connected to the next level by a hallway with a similar stone door
- 20,000 inhabitants
- 50 major airhsafts from above, 1000s of airshafts distribution, and waterways connected at bottom
- rooms of varyin sizes: refectories, kitchens, bedrooms, bathrooms, [dry]food storage rooms, oil and wine presses, wells, weapons storage areas, churches, schools, tombs, and domestic animal [cattle, ] stables, general storage, winery, markets, prisoner holing area,
- wells within the city did not all link together, nor did they all go to the surface. This protected inhabitants from invaders who might think to poison the entire water system from the outside.
- Derinkuyu also provided protection from the weather which was very hot in the summer and very cold and snowy in the winter. Daily temperatures also fluctuated widely. Underground, the temperature was fairly stable throughout the year at around 55 degrees, which made it ideal for keeping animals cool, maintaining fresh water supplies, and keeping food fresh.
- upper levels, the Cappadocians kept livestock to avoid the toxic gases and smell produced by cattle as much as possible. The livestock also served as a layer of living insulation, helping to keep the city warm in the cold months.
- 


Livestock was kept in stables nearest to the surface to reduce the smell and toxic gases produced by cattle, as well as provide a warm layer of living insulation for the cold months. The inner layers of the city contained dwellings, cellars, schools and meeting spaces. Identifiable by its unique barrel-vaulted ceilings, a traditional Byzantine missionary school, complete with adjacent rooms for study, is located on the second floor. According to De Giorgi, "the evidence for winemaking is grounded in the presence of cellars, vats for pressing and amphoras [tall, two-handled jars with a narrow neck]." These specialised rooms indicate that inhabitants of Derinkuyu were prepared to spend months beneath the surface.

a complex ventilation system and protected well that would have supplied the entire city with fresh air and clean water. In fact, it's thought that the early construction of Derinkuyu centred around these two essential elements. More than 50 ventilation shafts, which allowed for natural airflow between the city's many dwellings and hallways, were distributed throughout the city to avoid a potentially fatal attack on their air supply. The well was dug more than 55m deep and could be easily cut off from below by the city inhabitants.



More than 40 of these smaller cities are three or more levels deep beneath the surface. Many are connected to Derinkuyu via carefully dug tunnels, some stretching as long as 9km. All of them are equipped with emergency escape routes in case an immediate return to the surface was necessary. But Cappadocia's subterranean secrets have not yet all been excavated. In 2014, a new and potentially even larger underground city was unearthed beneath the Nevsehir region.

Carved from the living rock, Derinkuyu is one of five inter-connected underground complexes with a total estimated capacity of 100,000 people.

9km tunnel connecting is contained within the citadel of Kaymakli in the Central Anatolia Region of Turkey.[1] First opened to tourists in 1964, the village is about 19 km from Nevşehir, on the Nevşehir-Niğde road.
connected to derinkuyu is Kaymakli Underground City
The underground city at Kaymakli differs from Derinkuyu in terms of its structure and layout. The tunnels are lower, narrower, and more steeply inclined. Of the four floors open to tourists, each space is organized around ventilation shafts. This makes the design of each room or open space dependent on the availability of ventilation.
The third floor contains the most important areas of the underground compound: storage places, wine or oil presses, and kitchens. The level also contains a remarkable block of andesite with relief textures. Recently it was shown that this stone was used for cold-forming copper.[12] The stone was hewn from an andesite layer within the complex. In order for it to be used in metallurgy, fifty-seven holes were carved into the stone.
The high number of storage rooms and areas for earthenware jars on the fourth floor indicates some economic stability. Kaymakli is one of the largest underground settlements in the region. The large area reserved for storage in such a limited area appears to indicate the need to support a large population underground.
citadel of Kaymakli holds 3,500? 8 levels - 66feet

others ozkonak, gaziemir,Avanos has communication pipes - 60,000, 40m 10floors

petra in jordan?
naours france
Poland’s Wieliczka Salt Mine near krakow, other mines
Dixia Cheng - beijing fallout center
Orvieto italy
burlington bunker uk
bueno aires
sidney and coober pedy stralia
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovin
edmonton, halifax, calgary, montreal, saskatoon, ottowa, st. johns, toronto, vancouver, charlotte town, winnipeg
chile
china
croatia
finland
france
germany
greece
hong kong
iran
italy
japan
joran
mexico
netherlands
russia
poland
singapore
south korea
spain
switzerland
sweden
taiwan
turkey
ukraine
uk - london has 4000000km o undrground tunnels
usa


see rat tribe - up to 1,000,000 underground in china beijing
undegroudn rail,

total 3 billion of 8 billion could survive for decade
after 3000 yrs of nuclear war/comet frags/no tech/disease from gen eng/ai destruction/climate fail? 10 million sounds fun number [worldwide]

...

clans:
- very bottom is water? their essential to agri. they do water. they grow poorly lit damp fungi infected plants of their own and make tainted drugs from them. they have access to the connecting tunnels. they are actually the key players. but they start lacking power seemingly.
- top is  control over cold storage, livestock and hence also esssential to agri. they have source of methane for power. they are rich and pwoerful.
- air shafts/vents and wells. they also have some water, control access to some outside world stuff and have commms round the citadel - they by far have the most freedom and intrconnectedness but limited resources. their water is limited and poisoned so they cant compete with bottom water.
- tech. they understand the scant working achival computers, keep mechanicals going, do engineering, electronics and stuff - they are essential for power, ventilation, pumps, development, education, and have been essential as long as the place has been here - but they are complacent and dont activelydo much past defending their own.
- stores. they control crucial things like certain nutrient, cheical, fertiliser/fungicide/pesticide, seed bank, medicines, and a myriad of cruical resources - but they depend on others.
- doorsmen. they are the police, offcially independent and apolitical tey naturally are totally corrupt and run half the place but also rely on everyone - informants and trading resources for favours - they also ofc control the doors that separate the levels and the sections so are fire control. some are brutal, some are forced to carry out punishments even capital ones - theres an odd mix of being proud, hunble, suffering concience and being sociopath.
- agri. source of food, medicines, drugs, many essential resources, also control ovr a major place for pleasure - the gardens.which means too theres access to info and influence. people talk and meet in the gardens.
- religiousy shit i aint got worked out. its gone a bit voodoo due to bad druq. maybe once it was coptic cristian before the cross went all upside down?
- council of ruling type guys. in theory the pwerful but its politic. and their politicing is complex and requires manipulation via tecnology. effectively a rep from each of the clans sitting atop a DAO. natuarlly being politic masters are also sy kings.
- bazaars. the traders and marketplaces are veryrich and powerful guilds indeed fingers in all pies, so have access to a bit of all - much politic, much complex.
- alcohol brewing/micororganism brewing/yeast/fungi - these guys make so many chemicals and medicines and drugs and drinsk - they keep people happyy, well, entertained and more - they not inly have resources and wealth but also control over stuff like the religion and the things thet rely on their drink n drugs etc.

does each clan cook for their own?
is there multiple entertainment/recs for the variosu clans? - baths in water, edm in tech, gardens in agri, drugs used by the elite, drugs used by the poor drugs used by the religious, 
music and drugs have become all powerful in this society.

...

psyops
fake news
people manip
voting migration
see cambridge analytica.

theres a world built on crypto and DAOs an tech that was brought in to stop wars and inequality and lack of privacy etc. but no-ine understands the tech anymore. they trust. but eventually its gotta be revelaed its all a fake.its manipulatedd. no-ones vote counts for shit, its artifical and the things gonna collapse ina bad way.

...

prokobiyos, acolyte priest at eginning:
starts off as tubby and unmotivated.
we reveal is younger of two brothers but older brother died. older brother was the fav, the strong, the golden child. hence prokobiyos lack of motivation.
abusive household of father very strict and trying to push sons too far in martial arts training cos traumatised by losing an attempt to sieze a whole other clan territory a generation before.
becames enamoured with martial arts when given a second intro via the priest hood recognsing hima s natural talent but due to his fathrs abuses a weird resulting lack of motivation, along with a strange yearning for somehwere hes yet to identify,  initially he thinks is derived from a misconcepton hes not born to be a priest - but maybe a clansman from th opposing sid in the conflict, he dominates the martial arts skills and that part of the basic priesthood not only by becoming a master of a physical art but being a mental power.
investing resources gained wisely he chooses residential space to make profit on and does well.
deciding he has done everything in martial arts after after learning all disciplines he chooses to move into politic.
becomming citadel council member, having whole resources of church and going from doing some surprisingly basic things himself so larning all the ropes, working hard, learning to overcome his iitial lack of ruthlessness/no game theory, shows knack for cross disciplinary scope, soinvolving self in other clans with a degree of what in future proves to be useful overall knowledge.
bonding with another clan he settles for a sucessful quiet period.
survives assassination attempt via ricin poisonbut is weakened and retires from matial arts to becme much more intellectualbased.
deciding that success in council and citadel politic isnt enough, develops aims to be control of whole citadel as he learns of other citadels, religions and hints of the dark in more and more detail.
succeeds, makes change, does good and althouh uses slightly unusal methods - tastes in druqs, brews and stuff menas alliances with clans in a very open and co-op manner.
finally falls vulnerable to love scandal - everyone needs love.
but comes out ok because hes good at heart and who can deny anyone love, even if they are priest.
now is like wise king with riches, power, fame, glory and mostly looked upon well. lives well knowning hes done right. mostly.

...

need african name?
queen of the bazaars.

trans girl, extremely hot.
shes weirdly hard to fathom - seems to like girls and guys, well dressing in a very sharp yet trashy way. able to fight and works out, has some priesthood martial arts training but weirdly has a well known tattoo of wetfolk religious thing on chest only visible when tits out.
black as midnight with distinctive short white hair.
but shes no idiot and not really as weird as youd think.
she started young. very young. by accident. wanted to be politic. got lucky doing something smol but it turned out to be crucial to the last clash between levels [although very bottom mention on list of onvolvements, like knocking a doorsman on the head, it proved releant to a degree thos there's lurking resentmetn as a result too].
this made her infamous when she milked it and slowly rose to power cos she was intelligent, good at politic and very very dirty.
some relvenat drives of ?:
- Emotions cannot simply be erased or ignored, and to believe they can is a suicidally-naive approach to political competition.
- To make the news, often you must create news.
- Unless you can fake sincerity, you'll get nowhere in this business
- appearance = confidence
- Hit it from every angle. Open multiple fronts on your enemy. He must be confused, and feel besieged on every side.
- Always praise 'em before you hit 'em
- Be bold. The more you tell, the more you sell.
- Losers don't make rules
- Admit nothing, deny everything, launch counterattack.
- Avoid obviousness.
- Get your carbs from booze, not bread
- Never do anything till you're ready to do it.
- Always keep the advantage.
- He who speaks first, looses.
- Attack, attack, attack, never defend.
- [after doing something vulgar] When i hear the word culture, I reach for my dick.
- Folks want government out of the bedroom and the boardroom.
- Lay low, play dumb, keep moving.
- Never turn down the opportunity to have sex or be on talked about.
- Nothing is on the level.
she has goten multiple councilmen into power for multiple clans - switches happily between loyalties
she invented some new political concepts like doing politics whether a clan wants her support or not to elect who she wants
she pulls the strings not the leaders
she is the citadel.

...

yoshihiro starts in the wet, just another wetpunk darkdruggie but slowly rises
peole fall for his dark druq manipulations but he finds out out that theres doom above
no-one listens when some lesser powers warn not to belive in him, that he's too good to be true
so when there were investigations they cleared him without actually investigating
and so more people trusted him cos he was cleared
so more epeople invest in his myth
evertually he has 90% of the citadel behind him when they try to (surface? go to other citadel? reach other place via new drug?)
only 30% of pop survive
of those who survivemany its the younger/junior who make  it - leaders and knowledge is lost.
yoshihiro dies by the hand of the girl he loves and has gotten pregnant after raping her whilst shes drugged - only for the baby to die at the protagonits hand when she kills her lover in rage.

...

protagonist girl
starts off nobody wetpunk dark druq down n out -story not yet clear.

wdent to america, worked for nasa and intel? and people
made virus company
got nsane rich
lost all control when he 'shot his neighbour' on island of belize
fled, claimed he was framed after hacking belize govt cos they were corrupt
sold story to vice saying he ha daccess to every computer on planet nearly, govts, cartels, org crime, relgions - so many wanted him dead
sough claimed asylum buncha places but constantly showed off, told people who he was where he was and barely escaped death all the time
bought n sold houses, cars, ruches, fame
partied, fell in love multiple times
got so deep in drugs including legendary psychotic flakka he totally went nuts
ended up n yachts armed to teeth with automatic weapons blasting round carribean islands getting rejected and arrested for importing guns, shooting at people, drugs etc.
scared multiple crew and staff and friends andjournalists etc.
eventually got trapped and jailed in spain, supposedly suicide in jails, even if people thought was a 'uicide'
mysterious call to one of ex fiance loves that he was alive after weeks post suicide.

...

trump
not as dumb as looks
used cambridge analytica to manipulate voters using illegally gathered data to pick key undecideds, target them with fake news tuned to make them vote on their triggers and then spent immense wealth n that trick
took pwer
had already bult property empire and immense riches
had created family of immense fame n fortune riches n beauty
media celebrity through tv shows n stuff
manipulated all the modern thigns that presidents dont
was roger stone puppet so used every dirty trick in the boook and tho hated for that still successs and became president
seemingly total idiot and fuck up yet more success and popular than man before or after
infamous if not universally totally loved
still also somehow percieved as bumbling iddiot although it aint as much dumb accident as it may seem - maybe theres reason behind the madness.
always seems to come out unscathed and on top

...

cambridge analytica staff one - forget name - lloks like cyber punk, blw whistle brought down the whole thing and expose dtruth, crisis of concience, knew too much but wa in a position of power way greater than people realised and had key killer knowledge - innvolve anaylitica member two.

cambridge analytica staff two - total greedy, idiot, scapegoat but to save self really collapsed the thing bad and brought down the guys who would otherwise have escaped - really fucked shit up
humble start but got a taste for good life, screwed by the good guys early on was turned bad - crisis of concience made her turn whistleblower to save herself bring down the bad gusy so helpign the good guys she turned on when originally had seemd all bad.

..

doorsmen:

seeming power behind doorsmen is x - but hes not actuallly truly cruel, just strict. not really th true brains or power tho.
second in command is more brutaland corrupt. but is also way smorter and also a ture spy/poilitc genius. has connects with so much moe than people could imagine. work for the 60,000 citadel that most dont even know exists except the wet.
tipoffs by multiple people looking to capitalise on power vacuum from collapse trigger someone to look into corruption in doorsmen - a goodguy tries to expose working with someone from brewhall cos they got the info but cos the tips came people trying to get power is accused of being corrupt
at this poin the goodguy thinks hes just exposing low level but fundamental corruption in a kinda cash for torture - dark but its just a few people suffering here n there for smol change resource.
repeated yelling this is sus gets him to the point of being accused of crying wolf.
eventually persistence leads to absolute killer piece of whistleblow evidence
massive intrigue and spying
meanwhile revealed that brutal spy henchman thug guy is actually miltiary spy guy, paying for conflict amongst levels and 3500 citadel slave labour, paying for doorsmen and do all sortsa dirty politic
whistleblow now appears to reveal doorsmen is built on the knwoledge that there's intentional systematic slave trade of some sort - peopl vanishing and others appearing but bein horribly used in multiple ways - sex slaves etc.
tuns out its not even just as dak as sex trafficing and slaave trade with other citadels - theres no hope for return to above
right hand man has whole crew of top doorsmen, highly trained brutal fighters and very adept spy skills including from other citadels and clans running the show sectretly from a second hq..
doorsmen is run on a grand scale using these guys to do all kindsa political machinations of spying and brutal tactics.
goodguy investigators get paranid as fuck, chased from inside and outside their own levels, eventually going public with findings, doorsmen collapse.
this contributes to the reveal return topside will never be possible.
head of doorsmen is shock, barely knew what was going on but no-one believes he could be that innocent.
true evil righthand man escapes and escapes to 60,000 citadel - revealed to all he was a real spy politic all along at level no-one knew existed.
very smort people have capitalised on the power vacuum left when the collapse occurs and profited immensely betting itll fall from start and become immmensely rich gaining resources and power as new level/council leaders etc.

...

also wants key and general/npc people for each clan - including, but not everyone in everything necessary:
- a variety of dif ethnicites so allowing dif cultural influences, keepign thigns exotic?
- varitey of musical and drug culture influences.
- some varity in dif cultures of historical styles and fashions so allowing stuff from suitbale keeping police seeming scary but relatable or vazaar traders exotic and oriental or council people affluent ad stylish or techs seeming cyberpunk/steampunk etc.
- variety in sexualities, genders, etc. to allow for appeal to all and lots of flavour and diversity
- maybe some mutations or tech specialisations making dif clans somewhat specialsed in their skills, abilities, advantages, weird sexynesses, fighting techniques, torture teqchniques, info gathering techniques, comms techniques, knowledge storing/gathering and disseminating techniques, drugs used/roas
- think up some good visual/descriptives such as scars/injuries, good features, unique affectatiions w.r.t. tofashions/facial hair/other hair/build and bahaviour and affectation and speaking accents/dialects/voices etc.

...

but switch the companies and countries to clans, and swicth the scams that collapse thigns to collapsing economies o drugs and the pwers lost and konowledges lost and stuff to drugs n clans n stuff for the citadel, switch the people to key people in clans and ofc switch the data n moeny n stuff to rumour n gossip n interclan chatter and drugs/tech/resources within citadel.

...

also needs love triangle sorta thing involving two girls and a guy
protagonist  girl follows mcafee type story
other girl follows arnie type story
lesbian couple, both get pregnant via guy - protagonist via date rape
guy is the bernie madeof story - starts with harmless scam, takes it so much bigger but is evetually responsible at cost others and self.
non mcafee one seemingly traitor to save her baby turns other in
guy kills her in revenge
other girl kills guy from wrath at the guy - but therefore kills the father of er baby not knowing
great tragedy born of love and anger and jealousy
protagonist girl ends up alone for a while before ending up in another lesbian relationship with someone unexpecc - the roger stone story type girl, not exactly good or bad but v power - we originally wanted to hate her, but we respecc her power and also shes cute - you kinda lover her so you want em to fuck.
eventually protagonist takes own life after never learning to open up and process trauma
roger stone now turned lesbian couple turns to the dark drug hardcore chasing her lost lover.
[song: The Great Escape – P!Nk]
plot question arises - why are we in the oubliette and even if we find out the case, can anyone free us?
more crucially, do we want to know or is it better to remain in ignorant bliss?
[song: Fire And Rain – James Taylor]
so it seemingly ends with roger stone girl seemingly bringing us back to where we strarted - another person punished for their bad deeds, this time by losing their lover.

final twist = protagonist mcafee girl is still alive.

join tht to itdwl by making the beginning of itdwl mcafee and either surviving lover or new lover.

somehow make itdwl slightly less duney but keep mostly same.

change itdwl longer term stuff to remove the borng done already parts from above, switch to b new n interesting, tell some new stories.

add a new arc of the birth of a new species.
the [portal] navigators - they not onlycan cope with the dark but have purpose - save humanity from earth trapped in the comet cycle.

so earth progessed to no longer suffer from repeat blast bak to stone age, pop. join the rest of humanity in [portal] network planets universe.

we now are in [portal] universe - dune like needing navigators, aquila rift like using portals for lightyear travel, but not aliens - instead the event horizon/40k type chaos - the dark.

the druq allows nav of the dark when using portals but navs  ofc see the entire pssibilities - either eventually find their bliss never to return or turn to the dark, so theres constant attrition of navs and a contstant war againt the dark.

something something new and independent source of dark druq, newest human additions to the [portal] navigator planets cause huge upset to a status quo where no-one knows how to make navigator druq and hence supply is limited, dwindling and hence the ultimate power crux in a universe where any other resource might as well be unlimited a far as just colonise new world via [portal]

our humanity now has the most powerful thing universe has ever known - think about it, the chance to exeriece every possibility, everything that can happen, has happened, will happen and eventually will be over n done with.

the ultimate prce is bing left to the void, complete, dark and lost and alone. but people seek their one. the seek to live forever in the perfecc universe and stay there.

is the search solvable, worth it and if so do you even want it when it comes to it - is it real when its all just dreams n possibilities.
the question we're really asking is does anyone really want to know the universe, choose their fate, have perfection, live forever, and be 'happy' if its trapped in an oubliette thats i a way no more real tan any other possibility and knowing all the others out there who have and will suffer.

is 'fake' worth it? red pill/blue pill.

the dark is the remaining, lurking hinted better option - not 'happy' but real.

[song: How To Disappear Completely – Radiohead]

--------

is the war to beat the dark? to find druq that doesnt turn people to the dark? to find happy without losing self to catatonia? to make everyone happy in infinite degree so utopia?

is it the case the the dark cant be beat, if you want to navigate infinite possibility you must expose self to the dark, since some will inevitably choose the dark you cant defeat it - it is greater than all else combined? is it that its best to let most live in their illusory world that the little they know is all there is, whether te tiniest micro eistence or multiple plaes of exstence, still not suffering in the full breadth f possible knowledge? who is to choose - how can we know? how do we know each person hasnt made their choice and what theyre doing is their version of utopia, living with limited knowledge for ever, that tis is their chosen best?

who are we to intervene?

with knowledge comes power comes responsibility - its a burden and that real burden is not knowing if we made the best choice.

all we can do is hope that what we choose is best and sine we base it on what we personally think is best we have to assume deep down everyone is the same.

but if everything happens, can happen  and will happen, dark is the  final winner and its the only truth, does it even matter?

maybe we should just succumb to the dark.

embrace the pain and allow it to consume us, be one with it and stop fighting.

[song for very ending: royal trux - suicide is painless]

FOR MOTH, WHO ESCAPED THE OUBLITETTE.

--------

ofc, some kllings, and betrayals, and jealousies and stuff can be indirect to complexify and confus things

...

main girl needs to travel to neighbouring citadel mistakenly following new copper  thinking = surface.
journey is chellenge cos dark
gets enslaved making copper
repeat rape
escapes with another girl
gets over dark but develops rape fetish
falls for other girl who suicides


...

real story is how the dark druq evolves/emerges, becomes key to church and the music/weird religion going corrupt, hence how that takes power

so that has to be what rises to dominance, how that involves the dif clans and how that can be intertwined with all those people n stories n plots.

...

>>>

everyone has someone they either lustafter, truly love or miss.

everyone falls for someone, everyone needs someone everyone finds someone everyone longs for someone or whatever.

its essential.

whether lonely, boring settled or unrequited or just beginning its there.

>>>

but ultmately there is only pain. exquisite agony. you dont fight it, or sffer it or tolerate it, you haev to revel in it and will it and explore it and go deeper into it than it wants you to. to becoe it and push it further than it wants to go, to become more than it until you become pain and you are pain. then you haev reached the end.

but true pain is not feeling nerve signals saying damage or too hot or too cold ect.

true apin isnt even loneliness or lost love or 

true pain is being lost. not knowig which reality is true.

is this a dream?

thought - the whole thing is an oubliette - it starts with main character entering the  state of imprisonment within the dungeo n and ends with them realising that their fate is indeed so:
strt with the first time they consume dark drug and end withem seeing the fact theres infinite universes yet they dont know which is their reality, which is dream and any or all...


::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

close with pull out to present day, narrator describes:

````no matter how many times i smoke, whatever the drug, i always return to this reality. i mean dream. i don't know. whatever. it doesn't matter. this time i'm going to find moth forever. 

i still  always leave a light on as instructed.```

[music: colourbox - tarantula] 

[Verse 1]
I'm living but I'm feeling numb
You could see it in my stare
I wear a mask so falsely now
That I don't know who I am
This void that whirls inside me
It's rolling me away
And I've noticed that in other eyes
Time is closing in

[Chorus]
But when the thunder breaks, it breaks for you and me
Tarantula, tarantula
Tarantula, tarantula

[Verse 2]
The future's looking rather grim
In this strange black time
The decisions lie with stupid men
Along with my life
They're choking and they hype at me
Expecting me to fall
But only if I'm threatened
Will the tables turn

[Chorus]
But when the thunder breaks, it breaks for you and me
Tarantula, tarantula
Tarantula, tarantula
You might also like
Breakdown (12" Version 1)
Colourbox
The Moon Is Blue
Colourbox
You’re Losing Me (From The Vault)
Taylor Swift
[Outro]
My world's under a sentence of death
I was born under clouds
When the pressure gets too much for me I bite



::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::


>>>>>>>>>>>

[Verse 1]
Now is not the time to go outside
Crawl back into bed and close your eyes
Now is not the time to go outside
Lock the doors and find a place to hide

[Chorus]
The TV says you're out of time
Suck the fear in through your eyes
Everyone is bland and blind
Don't go outside

[Verse 2]
Shut your mouth, give up and fall in line
Listen to the way the children cry
Amphibians are falling from the sky
Now is not the time to go outside

[Chorus]
The TV says you're out of time
Suck the fear in through your eyes
Everyone is bland and blind
Don't go outside

[Bridge]
(Please help me)
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay, okay
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay
Everything will be okay, okay
Ooh, ooh
You might also like
Church Outfit
Poppy
Anything Like Me
Poppy
Sick of the Sun
Poppy
[Outro]
Down, let it all burn down
Burn it to the ground
We'll be safe and sound
When it all burns down
Let it all burn down
Burn it to the ground
We'll be safe and sound
Down, let it all burn down
Burn it to the ground
(You can be anyone you want to be)
Down, let it all burn down
Burn it to the ground
(You can be anyone you want to be)
Down, let it all burn down
(Bury me six feet deep and just cover me in concrete, please)
Burn it to the ground
(You can be anyone you want to be)
Down, let it all burn down
(Bury me six feet deep and just cover me in concrete, please)
Burn it to the ground
(You can be anyone you want to be)

...

post an insta of a tweet showing a fake news reprting 3.9million increae in suicides after the broadcast of a netflix serial  adaptation of this book and link to a website.

website just has plainext of book, a pic of a skullonly deathshead hawkmoth on a camphor flower and the song dont go outside by poppy plays.

...

The Sinking Ships - Strangers

[Verse 1]
Is there someone who can understand the things that he says?
And there was something he once said to me a long time ago
Something I never quite understood
Something that seemed so strange

[Chorus]
It seems a long time ago
Such a long time ago
And will things ever change?
No, things don't ever change

[Verse 2]
Distances mean nothing to him now
He can take his time
The faces all pass him by and he smiles
He pauses for a while
I stayed up late for you last night
I waited all through the night

[Chorus]
It seems a long time ago
Such a long time ago

[Verse 2]
Distances mean nothing to him now
He can take his time
The faces all pass him by and he smiles
He pauses for a while
I stayed up late for you last night
I waited all through the night

[Chorus]
It seems a long time ago
Such a long time ago
It seems a long time ago
Such a long time ago



-------

tantalum/niobium/ytrium: germany - niobium/ytrium/flourine pegmatites; italy, former soviets eastern and scandiwegia -  tantalum/caesium/lithium pegmatites
kaliningrad extraction/processing; mining in france/russia near finland, deposits in turkey
at processing much radioactives removed

silver in uk, finland, morocco

ytrium Endohedral metallofullerenes:Yt@C60
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endohedral_fullerene
appications in nanomedicine - gd@c82(oh)22 is developed as mri contrast agent, turns out to inhibit yap1 oncogene from activating tumour metastasis inhibition via signal transduction pathway blocking
maybe monopole creation?
Yttrium has no known biological role, though it is found in most, if not all, organisms and tends to concentrate in the liver, kidney, spleen, lungs, and bones of humans.
the seeds of woody plants have the highest known concentrations.
synthetic garnet longg range microwave filters/acoustic energy trasmitter and transducer/near infrarred lasers for cutting and drilling metal/strengthening metal alloys/shock resistance and low thermal expansion hi tech glass/cancer treatments as 
Yttrium Y 90-DOTA-tyr3-octreotide and Yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan bound to monoclonal antibodies, also rasdioactive microspheres too/neeles of yttrium 90 sharper than scalpels for nerve surgery/medical lasers/above liquid nitrogen superconductors/superconductors based on perovskites from chondrite meteorites?/lyp lithium iron phosphate batteries[longer life lithium batteries, improved safety, cycle time]/blue pigmant with indium and manganese - first new in 200 yrs 2009.

--------


2023 ibm debuts 1000 qubit quantum computer
2024 bioelectronics/starlink network co mplete/3d printing clothes
2025 many smol modular nuclar reactors/mouse revival from cryo/bioterror/martian moon samples return to earth/iter fusion rector switched on/1 billion human g3enomes sequenced/human brain simulations/3d printed organs/solarmiximum - solar flare hits?
2026 psyche orbits large asteroid 1% of asteroid belt 16 psyche/synthetic human genome/hl-lhc and ilc complete/robotic hands/50tb m2/
2027 close mile asteroid
2028 athena x-ray observatory/'Oumuamua-like interstellar object, or possible fragment from the Oort cloud comet interception launched/extinct speciess resurrection
2029 human like ai/60,000 satellites in orbit
2030 ai designed anti biotics/metaverse reaches $5trillion value
2031 swiss cargo sous terrain/bangkok abandoned to flooding/web 4.0/stem cell pharmacies/chocolate rare luxury
2033 hongkong artificial island/Quantum computers are cracking RSA-2048 keys/mars samples return to earth

2030s ectogenesis/lisa grav wave detector/et - telescope for grav waves/1st trillionaire
2040s vuirtual telepathy/nanotubes/16k vr/singularity/bionic eyews
2050s designer babies/'Oumuamua reached/handheld mri/mars presence?
2060s longevity treatments/underground habitats
2070s picotech/virus simulations
2080s more nonbio tan bio people/hyper intelligent computers
2090s photosynthetic humans





------

flaoting plants to putify wastewater and frshwater in too.

neonicotnoid insecticide poisoning of bee mitochondrai combatted by ahiflower oil rich in omega-3

crispr users adding to fucked rna and dna everywhere including phages that fuck with everythings dna - mutant  peeple to viruses all sorts.

gen eng nitrogen/phosphate fixing bacteria solve need for chemical fertilisers - as rhizobia on roots exchanging the fertilisers for nutrients.

special leaf cutter ant colonies that farm fungi gen enged too express?
symbiotic use of caterpillar excrement cos caterpillars remove toxins. fucking genius.

genome edited iPS stem cells could serve as drug delivery system - see bookmark

reverting cells to stems cells when damaged canb give abilty to not just heal better and avopid as bad aging but also regrow things - limbs, organs etc.
https://phys.org/news/2023-06-scientists-clues-aging-squishy-sea.html

pinacidil alters potassium ion channels to release more free radicals helpign fight viruses

In Miura outside Tokyo, vacuum trucks carrying human waste arrive one after another at a treatment facility.
Water is removed and then bacteria ferment the remaining solids in huge tanks.
Methane produced during the process is burned to supply the facility's hot water and electricity, and the final product is a soil-like powder that can be spread on fields.
"We produce 500 tons of fertilizer annually," said Kenichi Ryose, facility manager at Miura Biomass Centre.
"This fertilizer is particularly good for leaf vegetables, like cabbage," he added.
"Even though we produce safe food, I imagine that for those who don't know much about it, the impressions people have of fertilizer made from human feces might not be good."

Since duckweed—a tiny plant sometimes called pond scum—is grown all over the world, the idea that it could be a readily available source of rubisco protein holds environmental promise.
rubisco from duckweed is not believed to contain allergens

on cone snail venom
"A lot of our success with venom molecules has been in developing pain medications, but depending on the pharmacology we'll see if it has therapeutic potential for any of the disease classes."


maad—a delicate tropical fruit which has a yellow fruit with a pulp that has a distinctive sweet and sour savor and is rich in vitamins and fiber, maad comes from a vine called the Saba senegalensis, which grows wild and is common across the region.
The fruit's season is relatively short, running from May to August, which prompts a rush of sellers at street corners, hawking the delicacy with salt, sugar or chili, blenderised into juice or turned into jam.
In Senegal most maad grows in the southern Casamance region on vines that wrap themselves round trees in thickly-forested areas.
Picking the fruit is done by hand and involves using long sticks
"Maad is a very risky investment. It can't stand sunlight or rain, and transporting it is difficult,"

A recent review, published in the Journal of Applied Microbiology, examines laboratory-based studies that highlight the antiviral properties of cannabis in countering the effects of viral infections such as the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) responsible for COVID-19, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and herpes simplex virus (HSV).
oth cannabinoids and terpenes in cannabis show great potential as antivirals in laboratory research.

